# CollegeFootballMatchPrediction
Using Python and Python Libraries, I scraped data from a college football website to train a machine learning model to accurately predict the result of a game. This model did so with around 80% accuracy, being 98% correct when fully confident on its decision.

# What I used
In this project, as stated above, I used python and python libraries to both scrape websites and train my machine learning model. I did this all in Jupyter Labs and sadly the file including the code revolving around the process to scrape the data has since been corrupted and lost. However, the process is easily explainable. First, I located my website that I would be scraping data from which ended up being cfbstats.com. I then used the python library BeautifulSoup to scrape the data, including names of teams, statistics from game to game, and dates. Using this data I then created a Pandas dataframe that included all the important information needed to train a machine learning model. For my machine learning model I used a random forest classifier and Scikit-learn library to train my model using the front half of the season. With that information I then had the machine learning model predict the second half of the season.

# Results
The model ended up with a precision score of 0.7774086378737541 or a little under 78%. This number is really well especially because of how little data we actually used to predict the results. Moreover when the model was entirely confident, meaning it had chosen a perfect win loss split (One team wins the other loses instead of predicting both win or lose), it was correct 69/70 times. Meaning the models precision score when entirely correct was an astonishing 0.98571428571 or 98.5%.

# What I learned
It was very evident that while this project was fun to do and there were many successes, there were also many failures and obstacles along the way. I now know scraping data is a very meticulous process that has a lot of trial and error. There were many times I thought I had come across the right website and started to scrape data until I realized that certain data I needed was inaccessible or just too inconvenient to even attempt at scraping. Furthermore, learning the libraries themselves and how they worked were problems in itself. Sometimes I even had problems even understanding how Jupyter Lab worked. Overall, I gained useful technical skills from this project but I also learned to have patience with difficult code and how to learn better from my mistakes in coding.
